docs/class6/module1/lab4.rst, before:

Lab 1.4: Integrating Venafi with BIG-IQ for Certificate Management
------------------------------------------------------------------
F5 Networks and Venafi have partnered to provide a tightly-integrated solution for certificate and key management.
Managing Venafi certificate requests through BIG-IQ automates laborious processes and reduces the amount of time you 
have to spend requesting and distributing certificates and keys to your managed devices. 

More information in `BIG-IQ Knowledge Center`_.

.. _`BIG-IQ Knowledge Center`: https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/bigiq-7-1-0/integrating-third-party-certificate-management.html

Also:

- `F5 Newsroom Article`_
- `DevCentral Technical Blog Post`_
- `F5 Venafi Solution for Enterprise Key and Certificate Management without AS3`_

.. _`F5 Newsroom Article`: https://www.f5.com/company/blog/machine-identity-protection-is-a-critical-part-of-modern-app-dev
.. _`DevCentral Technical Blog Post`: https://devcentral.f5.com/s/articles/F5-Venafi-Solution-for-enterprise-Key-and-Certificate-management
.. _`F5 Venafi Solution for Enterprise Key and Certificate Management without AS3`: https://www.f5.com/services/resources/use-cases/automating-protection--machine-identities--f5-and-venafi

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MUl74aWxE88" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-LfDKoMYa9Y" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Watch the video from our partner Venafi:

- |video1|
- |video2|

.. |video1| raw:: html

   <a href="https://youtu.be/BrkIlhpEGtU" target="_blank">F5 Solution Overview: The Difference Between Big-IP and Big-IQ | Paul Cleary, Venafi</a>

.. |video2| raw:: html

   <a href="https://youtu.be/F0GjpYDf2qs" target="_blank">F5 New Application Deployed via Big-IQ | Paul Cleary, Venafi</a>

.. include:: /accesslab.rst

Configured third-party certificate provider on BIG-IQ
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Start the **Venafi Trust Protection** component (the Windows Server 2019 in the lab). Wait at least 5 min so all the necessary services start.

2. Login to BIG-IQ as **david** by opening a browser and go to: ``https://10.1.1.4``.

Navigate to Configuration tab > Local Traffic > Certificate Management > Third Party CA Management.

Click **Create**.

- CA Providers: ``Venafi``
- Name: ``Venafi UDF lab``
- WebSDK Endpoint: ``https://ec2amaz-bq0fcmk.f5demo.com/vedsdk``
- User Name: ``admin``
- Password: ``Purple123@123``

.. note:: The Key Passphrase is to specify a password that will be used to encrypt that private key when it's sent from verified to BIG-IQ.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-5.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Click on **Test Connection**.

**Save & Close**

3. Then click on **Edit Policy** under Additional Configuration

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-6.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Retrieve the policies available under the Policy Folder Path specified: ``\VED\Policy\Certificates\F5``

Click on **Get Policy Folder**.

Here, BIG-IQ will retrieve all the policies available under the policy folder specified.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-7.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

You can look at those policies in Venafi by looking at the last chapter of this lab *Venafi Setup and Microsoft CA*.

SSL Certificate & Key creation on BIG-IQ
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Navigate to Configuration tab > Local Traffic > Certificate Management > Certificates & Keys.

Fill all necessary information and click **Create**. This will generate a certificate request or CSR along with a Private Key.
This CSR will be send to Let's encrypt server which will sign it and send it back to BIG-IQ.

- Name: ``webapp123``
- Issuer: ``Venafi UDF lab``
- Policy Folder: ``Seattle DataCenter``
- Common Name: ``webapp123.f5demo.com``
- Division: ``UDF lab``
- Organization: ``F5``
- Locality: ``Seattle``
- State/Province: ``WA``
- Country: ``US``
- E-mail Address: ``webadmin@f5demo.com``
- Subject Alternative Name: ``DNS: webapp123.f5demo.com``
- Key Password: ``Password@123456``


.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-8.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

2. After the Certificate Request is signed, it will show Managed on the BIG-IQ and ready to be deploy on the BIG-IP.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-9.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

3. Now, let's pin both certificate and key to a device. Navigate to Pinning Policies under Local Traffic.

Click on **SEA-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com** device.

Look for the SSL certificate and add it to the device.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-12.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Repeat the same with the SSL Key:

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-13.png
  :scale: 80%
  :align: center

4. Deploy the SSL objects to the BIG-IQ.

Navigate Deployment tab > Evaluate & Deploy > Local Traffic & Networks.

Create a new deployment:

- Source Scope: ``Partial Change``
- Method: ``Deploy Immediately``
- Source Objects: select both SSL certificate & Key
- Target Device(s): ``SEA-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com``

Click **Deploy**.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-14a.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

5. Open a RDP session on the **Venafi Trust Protection** component (the Windows Server 2019 in the lab).

Open Chrome and navigate to the Venafi Web Admin Console ``https://ec2amaz-bq0fcmk.f5demo.com/vedadmin`` (admin/Purple123@123)

.. note:: You can also open directly the Venafi Web Admin Console from the lab, click on the ACCESS button under **Venafi Trust Protection**.
          Then, add ``/vedadmin`` at the end of the URL (e.g. ``https://9077cbc1-a648-4b0c-945e-fd226e4d4133.access.udf.f5.com/vedadmin``)

6. On the Venafi Web Admin Console, select the **Policy** in the top menu (if not already selected) and navigate under ``Certificates > F5 > Seattle Data Center``.

From there, expand the folder and look for the certificate previously generated from BIG-IQ.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-10.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

From the **Server Manager**, open **MS CA** admin interface and look for the same certificate under *Issued Certificates*.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-11.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

7. Finally, navigate in the Device Folder Path ``\VED\Policy\Devices and Applications\External\Big-IQ`` and 
   notice Seattle BIG-IP has been added in Venafi automatically by BIG-IQ after the certificate has been pushed to the device.
   This is to help keeping BIG-IQ and Venafi inventory up to date and synchronized.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-14b.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center


AS3 HTTPS template with SSL Key Passphrase creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go back on BIG-IQ and navigate to the Applications tab > Applications Templates and 
   select ``AS3-F5-HTTPS-offload-lb-existing-cert-template-big-iq-default-<version>`` and press **Clone**.

2. Give the cloned template a name: ``AS3-F5-HTTPS-offload-lb-existing-cert-with-passphrase`` and click Clone.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-15.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

3. Open the new templates created and select the AS3 class ``Certificates`` on the left menu of the AS3 template editor.

Check **Editable** the 2 following attributes: ``JOSE header`` and ``Ciphertext``.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-16.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

4. Save & close the template and publish it so it can be used in the next step.


AS3 HTTPS offload application service deployment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go to the Applications tab > Applications and  click **Create** to create an Application Service:

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Application properties:                                                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Grouping = Part of an Existing Application                                                      |
| * Application Name = ``LAB_module2``                                                              |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Select an Application Service Template:                                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Template Type = Select ``AS3-F5-HTTPS-offload-lb-existing-cert-with-passphrase [AS3]``          |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| General Properties:                                                                               |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Application Service Name = ``https_app_service``                                                |
| * Target = ``SEA-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com``                                                          |
| * Tenant = ``tenant4``                                                                            |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Analytics_Profile. Keep default.                                                                  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pool                                                                                              |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Members: ``10.1.20.115``                                                                        |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| TLS_Server. Keep default.                                                                         |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Certificate                                                                                       |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * privateKey: ``/Common/webapp123.key``                                                           |
| * certificate: ``/Common/webapp123.crt``                                                          |
| * Passphrase > Ciphertext: ``UGFzc3dvcmRAMTIzNDU2``                                               |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Service_HTTPS                                                                                     |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Virtual addresses: ``10.1.10.126``                                                              |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. note:: In order to get the value of the Ciphertext, we convert the SSL key password (``Password@123456``) using https://www.url-encode-decode.com/base64-encode-decode/
          More details on the AS3 Certificate class `here <https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-appsvcs-extension/latest/refguide/schema-reference.html#certificate-passphrase>`_.

2. Check the application ``LAB_module2`` has been created along with the application service https_app_service

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-17.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

.. note:: If not visible, refresh the page. It can take few seconds for the application service to appears on the dashboard.

3. SSH Ubuntu host in lab environment and add the domain name and Virtual address to the /etc/hosts file.

We are doing this to be able to use the domain name we used in the SSL certificate along with the Virtual IP address created in BIG-IP.
This is only for this lab.

.. code::

    f5student@ip-10-1-1-5:~$ sudo su -
    root@ip-10-1-1-5:/home/f5student# echo "10.1.10.126 webapp123.f5demo.com" >> /etc/hosts
    root@ip-10-1-1-5:/home/f5student# nslookup webapp123.f5demo.com


4. From the lab environment, launch a remote desktop session to have access to the Ubuntu Desktop. 
To do this, in your lab environment, click on the *Access* button
of the *Ubuntu Lamp Server* system and select *noVNC* or *xRDP*.

.. note:: Modern laptops with higher resolutions you might want to use 1440x900 and once XRDP is launched Zoom to 200%.

You can test the application service by opening a browser in the Ubuntu Jump-host and type the URL ``https://webapp123.f5demo.com``.

.. note:: The certificate shows not secure as we are using a demo Root CA not imported in the browser by default.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-18.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Venafi Setup and Microsoft CA
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this part, we are going to review some of the Venafi configuration.

1. Open a RDP session on the **Venafi Trust Protection** component (the Windows Server 2019 in the lab).

Open Chrome and navigate to the Venafi Web Admin Console ``https://ec2amaz-bq0fcmk.f5demo.com/vedadmin`` (admin/Purple123@123)

.. note:: You can also open directly the Venafi Web Admin Console from the lab, click on the ACCESS button under **Venafi Trust Protection**.
          Then, add ``/vedadmin`` at the end of the URL (e.g. ``https://9077cbc1-a648-4b0c-945e-fd226e4d4133.access.udf.f5.com/vedadmin``)

3. Under the **Policy** menu, navigate under Policy > Administration > CA Templates and select the **Microsoft CA-lab-1year**.

This is where is defined the connection between Venafi and Microsoft Certification Authority. 
The Credentials below will contain the username and password to access the MS CA.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-1.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

4. Then, navigate under Policy > Certificates and select the policy folder called **F5**, then click on the **Certificates** tab.

We can set default values in the F5 Policy Parent folder and anything that isn't set on one of the sub folders in the Boston, 
San Jose, Paris or Seattle folders gets defaulted to the F5 values.

In this lab, we have changed the Management Type to **Enrollment**. 
The Organization Name and Unit have been set as locked values and we are letting the user to change the country but default value is US.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-2.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

5. Note we also assign the CA template from MS CA in the F5 policy.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-3.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

6. Finally, going down a level where you can see we have set a policy per data center, we lock the values for the city and state.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-4.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Commit message:

add new lab class1 mod2 lab11, update existing as3 ansible labs

docs/class6/module1/lab4.rst, after:

Lab 1.4: Integrating Venafi with BIG-IQ for Certificate Management
------------------------------------------------------------------
F5 Networks and Venafi have partnered to provide a tightly-integrated solution for certificate and key management.
Managing Venafi certificate requests through BIG-IQ automates laborious processes and reduces the amount of time you 
have to spend requesting and distributing certificates and keys to your managed devices.

More information in `BIG-IQ Knowledge Center`_.

.. _`BIG-IQ Knowledge Center`: https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/bigiq-7-1-0/integrating-third-party-certificate-management.html

See `Class 1 Module 2 Lab 2.11`_ to run the same lab fully automated using Ansible!

.. _Class 1 Module 2 Lab 2.11: /class1/module2/lab11.html

Also:

- `F5 Newsroom Article`_
- `DevCentral Technical Blog Post`_
- `F5 Venafi Solution for Enterprise Key and Certificate Management without AS3`_

.. _`F5 Newsroom Article`: https://www.f5.com/company/blog/machine-identity-protection-is-a-critical-part-of-modern-app-dev
.. _`DevCentral Technical Blog Post`: https://devcentral.f5.com/s/articles/F5-Venafi-Solution-for-enterprise-Key-and-Certificate-management
.. _`F5 Venafi Solution for Enterprise Key and Certificate Management without AS3`: https://www.f5.com/services/resources/use-cases/automating-protection--machine-identities--f5-and-venafi

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MUl74aWxE88" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-LfDKoMYa9Y" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Watch the video from our partner Venafi:

- |video1|
- |video2|

.. |video1| raw:: html

   <a href="https://youtu.be/BrkIlhpEGtU" target="_blank">F5 Solution Overview: The Difference Between Big-IP and Big-IQ | Paul Cleary, Venafi</a>

.. |video2| raw:: html

   <a href="https://youtu.be/F0GjpYDf2qs" target="_blank">F5 New Application Deployed via Big-IQ | Paul Cleary, Venafi</a>

.. include:: /accesslab.rst

Configured third-party certificate provider on BIG-IQ
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Start the **Venafi Trust Protection** component (the Windows Server 2019 in the lab). Wait at least 5 min so all the necessary services start.

2. Login to BIG-IQ as **david** by opening a browser and go to: ``https://10.1.1.4``.

Navigate to Configuration tab > Local Traffic > Certificate Management > Third Party CA Management.

Click **Create**.

- CA Providers: ``Venafi``
- Name: ``Venafi UDF lab``
- WebSDK Endpoint: ``https://ec2amaz-bq0fcmk.f5demo.com/vedsdk``
- User Name: ``admin``
- Password: ``Purple123@123``

.. note:: The Key Passphrase is to specify a password that will be used to encrypt that private key when it's sent from verified to BIG-IQ.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-5.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Click on **Test Connection**.

**Save & Close**

3. Then click on **Edit Policy** under Additional Configuration

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-6.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Retrieve the policies available under the Policy Folder Path specified: ``\VED\Policy\Certificates\F5``

Click on **Get Policy Folder**.

Here, BIG-IQ will retrieve all the policies available under the policy folder specified.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-7.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

You can look at those policies in Venafi by looking at the last chapter of this lab *Venafi Setup and Microsoft CA*.

SSL Certificate & Key creation on BIG-IQ
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Navigate to Configuration tab > Local Traffic > Certificate Management > Certificates & Keys.

Fill all necessary information and click **Create**. This will generate a certificate request or CSR along with a Private Key.
This CSR will be send to Let's encrypt server which will sign it and send it back to BIG-IQ.

- Name: ``webapp123``
- Issuer: ``Venafi UDF lab``
- Policy Folder: ``Seattle DataCenter``
- Common Name: ``webapp123.f5demo.com``
- Division: ``UDF lab``
- Organization: ``F5``
- Locality: ``Seattle``
- State/Province: ``WA``
- Country: ``US``
- E-mail Address: ``webadmin@f5demo.com``
- Subject Alternative Name: ``DNS: webapp123.f5demo.com``
- Key Password: ``Password@123456``


.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-8.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

2. After the Certificate Request is signed, it will show Managed on the BIG-IQ and ready to be deploy on the BIG-IP.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-9.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

3. Now, let's pin both certificate and key to a device. Navigate to Pinning Policies under Local Traffic.

Click on **SEA-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com** device.

Look for the SSL certificate and add it to the device.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-12.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Repeat the same with the SSL Key:

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-13.png
  :scale: 80%
  :align: center

4. Deploy the SSL objects to the BIG-IQ.

Navigate Deployment tab > Evaluate & Deploy > Local Traffic & Networks.

Create a new deployment:

- Source Scope: ``Partial Change``
- Method: ``Deploy Immediately``
- Source Objects: select both SSL certificate & Key
- Target Device(s): ``SEA-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com``

Click **Deploy**.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-14a.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

5. Open a RDP session on the **Venafi Trust Protection** component (the Windows Server 2019 in the lab).

Open Chrome and navigate to the Venafi Web Admin Console ``https://ec2amaz-bq0fcmk.f5demo.com/vedadmin`` (admin/Purple123@123)

.. note:: You can also open directly the Venafi Web Admin Console from the lab, click on the ACCESS button under **Venafi Trust Protection**.
          Then, add ``/vedadmin`` at the end of the URL (e.g. ``https://9077cbc1-a648-4b0c-945e-fd226e4d4133.access.udf.f5.com/vedadmin``)

6. On the Venafi Web Admin Console, select the **Policy** in the top menu (if not already selected) and navigate under ``Certificates > F5 > Seattle Data Center``.

From there, expand the folder and look for the certificate previously generated from BIG-IQ.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-10.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

From the **Server Manager**, open **MS CA** admin interface and look for the same certificate under *Issued Certificates*.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-11.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

7. Finally, navigate in the Device Folder Path ``\VED\Policy\Devices and Applications\External\Big-IQ`` and 
   notice Seattle BIG-IP has been added in Venafi automatically by BIG-IQ after the certificate has been pushed to the device.
   This is to help keeping BIG-IQ and Venafi inventory up to date and synchronized.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-14b.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center


AS3 HTTPS template with SSL Key Passphrase creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go back on BIG-IQ and navigate to the Applications tab > Applications Templates and 
   select ``AS3-F5-HTTPS-offload-lb-existing-cert-template-big-iq-default-<version>`` and press **Clone**.

2. Give the cloned template a name: ``AS3-F5-HTTPS-offload-lb-existing-cert-with-passphrase`` and click Clone.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-15.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

3. Open the new templates created and select the AS3 class ``Certificates`` on the left menu of the AS3 template editor.

Check **Editable** the 2 following attributes: ``JOSE header`` and ``Ciphertext``.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-16.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

4. Save & close the template and publish it so it can be used in the next step.


AS3 HTTPS offload application service creation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Go to the Applications tab > Applications and  click **Create** to create an Application Service:

+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Application properties:                                                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Grouping = Part of an Existing Application                                                      |
| * Application Name = ``LAB_module2``                                                              |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Select an Application Service Template:                                                           |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Template Type = Select ``AS3-F5-HTTPS-offload-lb-existing-cert-with-passphrase [AS3]``          |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| General Properties:                                                                               |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Application Service Name = ``https_app_service``                                                |
| * Target = ``SEA-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com``                                                          |
| * Tenant = ``tenant4``                                                                            |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Analytics_Profile. Keep default.                                                                  |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Pool                                                                                              |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Members: ``10.1.20.115``                                                                        |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| TLS_Server. Keep default.                                                                         |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Certificate                                                                                       |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * privateKey: ``/Common/webapp123.key``                                                           |
| * certificate: ``/Common/webapp123.crt``                                                          |
| * Passphrase > Ciphertext: ``UGFzc3dvcmRAMTIzNDU2``                                               |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Service_HTTPS                                                                                     |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| * Virtual addresses: ``10.1.10.126``                                                              |
+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. note:: In order to get the value of the Ciphertext, we convert the SSL key password (``Password@123456``) using https://www.url-encode-decode.com/base64-encode-decode/
          More details on the AS3 Certificate class `here <https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-appsvcs-extension/latest/refguide/schema-reference.html#certificate-passphrase>`_.

2. Check the application ``LAB_module2`` has been created along with the application service https_app_service

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-17.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

.. note:: If not visible, refresh the page. It can take few seconds for the application service to appears on the dashboard.

3. SSH Ubuntu host in lab environment and add the domain name and Virtual address to the /etc/hosts file.

We are doing this to be able to use the domain name we used in the SSL certificate along with the Virtual IP address created in BIG-IP.
This is only for this lab.

.. code::

    f5student@ip-10-1-1-5:~$ sudo su -
    root@ip-10-1-1-5:/home/f5student# echo "10.1.10.126 webapp123.f5demo.com" >> /etc/hosts
    root@ip-10-1-1-5:/home/f5student# nslookup webapp123.f5demo.com


4. From the lab environment, launch a remote desktop session to have access to the Ubuntu Desktop. 
To do this, in your lab environment, click on the *Access* button
of the *Ubuntu Lamp Server* system and select *noVNC* or *xRDP*.

.. note:: Modern laptops with higher resolutions you might want to use 1440x900 and once XRDP is launched Zoom to 200%.

You can test the application service by opening a browser in the Ubuntu Jump-host and type the URL ``https://webapp123.f5demo.com``.

.. note:: The certificate shows not secure as we are using a demo Root CA not imported in the browser by default.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-18.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Venafi Setup and Microsoft CA
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this part, we are going to review some of the Venafi configuration.

1. Open a RDP session on the **Venafi Trust Protection** component (the Windows Server 2019 in the lab).

Open Chrome and navigate to the Venafi Web Admin Console ``https://ec2amaz-bq0fcmk.f5demo.com/vedadmin`` (admin/Purple123@123)

.. note:: You can also open directly the Venafi Web Admin Console from the lab, click on the ACCESS button under **Venafi Trust Protection**.
          Then, add ``/vedadmin`` at the end of the URL (e.g. ``https://9077cbc1-a648-4b0c-945e-fd226e4d4133.access.udf.f5.com/vedadmin``)

3. Under the **Policy** menu, navigate under Policy > Administration > CA Templates and select the **Microsoft CA-lab-1year**.

This is where is defined the connection between Venafi and Microsoft Certification Authority. 
The Credentials below will contain the username and password to access the MS CA.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-1.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

4. Then, navigate under Policy > Certificates and select the policy folder called **F5**, then click on the **Certificates** tab.

We can set default values in the F5 Policy Parent folder and anything that isn't set on one of the sub folders in the Boston, 
San Jose, Paris or Seattle folders gets defaulted to the F5 values.

In this lab, we have changed the Management Type to **Enrollment**. 
The Organization Name and Unit have been set as locked values and we are letting the user to change the country but default value is US.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-2.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

5. Note we also assign the CA template from MS CA in the F5 policy.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-3.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

6. Finally, going down a level where you can see we have set a policy per data center, we lock the values for the city and state.

.. image:: ./media/img_module1_lab4-4.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center
