docs/class1/module6/lab1.rst, before:

Lab 6.1: Importing AS3 templates
--------------------------------

Official documentation about AS3 via a GUI can be found: https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-big-iq

From UDF, launch a Console/RDP session to have access to the Ubuntu Desktop. Go to Ubuntu Jumphost and select Details > XRDP and select the resolution of choice. (Tip: modern laptops with higher resolutions you might want to use 1440x900 and once XRDP is launched Zoom to 200%)

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-1-1.png
  :align: center
  :scale: 30%

View AS3 templates section
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Logon to BIG-IQ by opening a browser and go to: ``https://10.1.1.4``

#. Go to Applications > Application Templates and review the top section which is titled **AS3 Templates**.

A new BIG-IQ v7.0 deployment will NOT include AS3 templates out of the box. If you want to start using AS3 templates which are provided by F5, then those AS3 templates can be found through the following link: https://www.f5.com/bigiqgithub

Import AS3 templates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Select **Import Templates** at the right top corner.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-1-2.png
  :align: center

#. Make yourself familiar with the Github page and understand which AS3 templates are available.

#. When the AS3 templates are already imported in BIG-IQ you don’t need to perform next step, instead continue with the following step.

#. Use the provided instructions on the Github page to import the templates into BIG-IQ.

#. Walk through the provided templates and select them to understand the structure. If familiar with AS3 you will notice the structure. 
   Otherwise go make sure you have gone through `Module 5`_ or visit `AS3 Example declarations`_.

.. _Module 5: ../module5
.. _AS3 Example declarations: https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-appsvcs-extension/latest/userguide/examples.html.

Commit message:

add SSLO script, minor updates various lab regarding how to connect to LAMP server in UDF, update diagram

docs/class1/module6/lab1.rst, after:

Lab 6.1: Importing AS3 templates
--------------------------------

Official documentation about AS3 application service management via a GUI can be found on the `BIG-IQ Knowledge Center`_.

.. _`BIG-IQ Knowledge Center`: https://techdocs.f5.com/en-us/bigiq-7-0-0/monitoring-managing-applications-using-big-iq.html

From UDF, launch a Console/RDP session to have access to the Ubuntu Desktop. 
To do this, in your UDF deployment, click on the *Access* button
of the *Ubuntu Lamp Server* system and select *Console* or *XRDP*

.. note:: Modern laptops with higher resolutions you might want to use 1440x900 and once XRDP is launched Zoom to 200%)

.. image:: ../../pictures/udf_ubuntu.png
    :align: center
    :scale: 50%

|

View AS3 templates section
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Logon to BIG-IQ by opening a browser and go to: ``https://10.1.1.4``

#. Go to Applications > Application Templates and review the top section which is titled **AS3 Templates**.

A new BIG-IQ v7.0 deployment will NOT include AS3 templates out of the box.
If you want to start using AS3 templates which are provided by F5, then those AS3 templates can be found through the following link: https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-big-iq

Import AS3 templates
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
#. Select **Import Templates** at the right top corner.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-1-2.png
  :align: center

#. Make yourself familiar with the Github page and understand which AS3 templates are available.

#. When the AS3 templates are already imported in BIG-IQ you don’t need to perform next step, instead continue with the following step.

#. Use the provided instructions on the Github page to import the templates into BIG-IQ.

#. Walk through the provided templates and select them to understand the structure. If familiar with AS3 you will notice the structure. 
   Otherwise go make sure you have gone through `Module 5`_ or visit `AS3 Example declarations`_.

.. _Module 5: ../module5
.. _AS3 Example declarations: https://clouddocs.f5.com/products/extensions/f5-appsvcs-extension/latest/userguide/examples.html.
