docs/class1/module6/lab2.rst, before:

Lab 6.2: HTTP Analytics Profile Creation for Legacy
---------------------------------------------------

In this lab, David is going to create the HTTP analytics profile missing to allow the BIG-IP
to send HTTP analytics data to the BIG-IQ, which will be then showing on the Application Dashboard.


1. Go to **Configuration > Local Traffic > Profiles and filter all profile with **analytics** in their names.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-1.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

2. Click on **Create**. User ``module6_analytics_profile`` as profile name, 
   Profile HTTP Analytics as Type, along with the option showing below.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-2.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-3.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

**Save & Close**.

3. Go to **Configuration > Local Traffic > Virtual Servers and filter on ``vip134``.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-4.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center


4. Edit one of the VIP and attached the ``module6_analytics_profile``.

.. note:: You only need to do vip134 on BOS-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-5.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Select the 2 VIPS and click on **Deploy**.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-6.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center


The deployment window opens. Type a name, select ``Deploy immediately`` for the Method.

Under the Target Device(s) section, click on ``Find Relevant Devices``
and select the **SEA-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com**. Then, click on Deploy.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-7.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Wait for the deployment to complete.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-8.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

5. Back on the Application tab > Application, go back to the ``legacy-app-service``.
   Under Traffic Management > Configuration, notice the warning disappeared.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-9.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

6. From the lab environment, launch a xRDP/noVNC session to have access to the Ubuntu Desktop. 
To do this, in your lab environment, click on the *Access* button
of the *Ubuntu Lamp Server* system and select *noVNC* or *xRDP*.

.. note:: Modern laptops with higher resolutions you might want to use 1440x900 and once XRDP is launched Zoom to 200%.

Open Chrome and Firefox and navigate on the website http\:\/\/site34.example.com.

.. note:: Accept the private certificates.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-10.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center


7. Back on BIG-IQ dashboard, notice the HTTP traffic starts to appear.


.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-11.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

8. By the way, notice the new **Feedback* link to the top right?

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-12.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Commit message:

update labs based on feedback from today

docs/class1/module6/lab2.rst, after:

Lab 6.2: HTTP Analytics Profile Creation for Legacy
---------------------------------------------------

In this lab, David is going to create the HTTP analytics profile and attach it to
the VIP. This will enable the BIG-IP to send HTTP analytics to the BIG-IQ and populate
the dashboard.

1. Go to **Configuration > Local Traffic > Profiles** and look at all existing analytics profiles
   available in this BIG-IQ. You can use the filter to look for a specific profile.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-1.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

2. Let's create a new HTTP analytics profile. Click **Create**. 
   
- Name: ``module6_analytics_profile``
- Type: ``Profile HTTP Analytics``
- Collected Statistics Internal Logging: ``Enabled``

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-2.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

- Max TPS and Throughput: ``Enabled``
- HTTP Timing (RTT, TTFB, Duration): ``Enabled``
- URLs: ``Enabled``
- Client IP Addresses: ``Enabled``
- Response Codes: ``Enabled``
- User Agents: ``Enabled``
- Methods: ``Enabled``

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-3.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

**Save & Close**.

3. Go to **Configuration > Local Traffic > Virtual Servers** and filter on ``vip134``.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-4.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center


4. Edit one of the VIP and attached the ``module6_analytics_profile``.

.. note:: You only need to update one of the 2 VIPs as the VIP is located on a BIG-IP cluster.
          BIG-IQ will update the other VIPs automatically.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-5.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Select the 2 VIPS and click on **Deploy**.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-6.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

The deployment window opens. Type a name, select ``Deploy immediately`` for the Method.

Under the Target Device(s) section, click on ``Find Relevant Devices``
and select the **BOS-vBIGIP01.termmarc.com** and **BOS-vBIGIP02.termmarc.com**. Then, click on Deploy.

.. note:: Notice you do not need to select the HTTP analytics profile but only the VIP.
          By having *Supporting Objects* option enabled, the deployment will include all objects that 
          selected object depends on.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-7.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

Wait for the deployment to complete.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-8.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

5. Back on the Applications tab > Applications, go back to the ``legacy-app-service``.
   Under Traffic Management > Configuration, notice the warning disappeared.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-9.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

6. From the lab environment, launch a xRDP/noVNC session to have access to the Ubuntu Desktop. 
To do this, in your lab environment, click on the *Access* button
of the *Ubuntu Lamp Server* system and select *noVNC* or *xRDP*.

.. note:: Modern laptops with higher resolutions you might want to use 1440x900 and once XRDP is launched Zoom to 200%.

Open Chrome and Firefox and navigate on the website http\:\/\/site34.example.com.

.. note:: Accept the private certificates.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-10.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center


7. Back on BIG-IQ application dashboard, notice the HTTP traffic starts to appear.

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-11.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center

8. By the way, did you see the new **Feedback** link on the top right?

.. image:: ../pictures/module6/lab-2-12.png
  :scale: 40%
  :align: center
