docs/class3/module4/lab3.rst, before:

Lab 4.3: BIG-IQ Analytics and Splunk
------------------------------------

**Prerequisites Splunk**

- This demo is using a instance of Splunk running in a `container`_.
- An `HTTP Event Collector`_ listening on port 8088 to receive JSON events has been configured.

.. _container: https://hub.docker.com/r/splunk/splunk/
.. _HTTP Event Collector: https://dev.splunk.com/enterprise/docs/dataapps/httpeventcollector/

**Custom script to export BIG-IQ analytics and send them over to Splunk**

Setup a script in the cron table on a Linux machine where the container runs to fetch the BIG-IQ analytics data using the API in 7.0 every X min

POST /mgmt/ap/query/v1/tenants/default/products/local-traffic/metric-query => JSON result file with the analytics requested

The event in JSON format are received every minute with the analytics requested (in the example transactions)

Built a Slunk Dashboard based on the JSON values of the events collects (in this example the transactions)

``index = "main" |table _time,result.result{}.transactions$avg-count-per-sec | rename result.result{}.transactions$avg-count-per-sec as transactions | spath``

Commit message:

add Splunk lab and make some minor updates

docs/class3/module4/lab3.rst, after:

Lab 4.3: BIG-IQ Analytics and Splunk
------------------------------------

**Prerequisites Splunk**

- This demo is using a instance of Splunk running in a `container`_.
- An `HTTP Event Collector`_ listening on port 8088 to receive JSON events has been configured.

.. _container: https://hub.docker.com/r/splunk/splunk/
.. _HTTP Event Collector: https://dev.splunk.com/enterprise/docs/dataapps/httpeventcollector/

**Custom script to export BIG-IQ analytics and send them over to Splunk**

A `script`_ is setup in the crontab (Linux Scheduler) where the Splunk container runs,
This script is getting the Analytics using BIG-IQ API, then sending the JSON result
to Splunk HTTP Event collector every minutes.

.. _script: https://github.com/f5devcentral/f5-big-iq-lab/tree/develop/lab/f5-demo-bigiq-analytics-export-restapi

The events (in JSON format) are received in Splunk and dashboards can be easily created using the search query field.

Below is an example of a search query used to display the HTTP Transactions:

``index = "main" |table _time,result.result{}.transactions$avg-count-per-sec | rename result.result{}.transactions$avg-count-per-sec as transactions | spath``

*Dashboard in Splunk*

.. image:: ../pictures/module4/img_lab3_1.png
  :align: center
  :scale: 70%

|

*Dashboard in BIG-IQ*

.. image:: ../pictures/module4/img_lab3_2.png
  :align: center
  :scale: 70%

|
